[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: How
many vitamins and minerals
do you have in your cabinet?
If you're like me, it's dozens
of bottles, mostly half used.
Interestingly, if
you were to take
a peek inside your
stomach, you would also
see most of them half digested.
Welcome, Dennis.
This is fun.
Everybody behind the scenes
here, the crew, everybody's
been talking to you
about what you do,
because it is really exciting.
And I have to just set this up.
Zeus, my husband, and I
were researching COVID.
We did tons of
research on it, just
trying to look at the
truth behind everything.
What can we do?
And we came across
some articles that
talked about this odd thing
about certain receptors
in the lungs having
to do with nicotine,
and so we started
questioning, jeez, I
wonder if people use nicotine
patches, if that would help?
It turns out they're
doing it in France.
They were very limited because
you couldn't even buy them.
And then he stumbled
upon you and found out
that you can get--
not just nicotine, but
nutrients delivered via patches.
And that's when I got excited
and did my first interview
with you on my site.
And it's so fun.
We had to bring your
story here to Gaia.
>>DENNIS SHEPHERD: Well, I
appreciate that very much,
and thank you for having me.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SHEPHERD: It's a pleasure.
>>REGINA: This is just,
to me, so fascinating
for so many reasons.
It's hopeful for
so many reasons.
So first of all, I think we need
to go to your own story, which
I mentioned, half digested
pills in the stomach.
>>SHEPHERD: Right.
>>REGINA: Which used to
witness as a pathologist.
>>SHEPHERD: Right.
>>REGINA: And you were
present at autopsies.
>>SHEPHERD: Right.
>>REGINA: And I want you to
just kind of tell us what
you found in people's stomachs.
>>SHEPHERD: Well, years,
and years, and years ago,
it was seen that undigested
pills and powders,
people coming in
there were athletes,
had a regimen of taking
25, 30, 50 pills a day,
and having issues
with those pills--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SHEPHERD: --being
undigested in the stomach
and in the lower intestines.
>>REGINA: So it isn't just
older people that have--
>>SHEPHERD: No.
>>REGINA: --low
digestive enzymes,
for example, because
I thought maybe
it would have been the elderly.
>>SHEPHERD: No, no.
And the interesting thing
is that younger people,
because that's all they
had, were pills and vitamin
supplements.
And they were over
supplementing themselves
to help with whatever activity
they were really involved with.
But the thing is that pills
are 95% filler and binder,
and the filler and
binder can be sand.
It can be rice.
It can be pebbles ground
up, and that is the glue
that holds a pill together.
>>REGINA: I mean, the--
OK, so the FDA doesn't oversee
these supplements per se.
So are you saying it's common
to have kind of trashy binders?
>>SHEPHERD: I'm not--
I can't define that--
>>REGINA: I'm just
saying I wouldn't want--
>>SHEPHERD: --because
I don't know.
>>REGINA: I take-- I take
vitamins and minerals, right?
>>SHEPHERD: Right.
>>REGINA: And it's
kind of off-putting
to think that those kinds of
things might be in the binding.
And I know that some-- you have
much more high quality versus
low quality--
>>SHEPHERD: Sure, sure.
>>REGINA: --ingredients
depending on the company
and their integrity.
>>SHEPHERD: Right.
And again, to me, binders
and fillers are one thing.
It's the cement that keeps--
>>REGINA: It all together.
>>SHEPHERD: --the
powder together.
There's the only one
thing that does that.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SHEPHERD: And as
you're mixing cement,
you're mixing it with rock,
and you're mixing it with sand.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SHEPHERD: In order
to get a solid.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SHEPHERD: And that's
what we've found.
>>REGINA: So as far as--
>>SHEPHERD: As far as
that, those things.
>>REGINA: Those fillers
were not breaking down.
>>SHEPHERD: They were
not breaking down.
>>REGINA: So if they're
not breaking down,
they're not releasing
the nutrients
to the digestive system
and blood stream?
>>SHEPHERD: Well,
they're not-- they're
not doing any good for you
is what the problem is.
So you might get, just
so you understand--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SHEPHERD: --is that a pill--
let's say a 300
milligram vitamin
could consist of really
only 30 milligrams
of the actual ingredient,
because the rest is all filler
and binder.
>>REGINA: OK, so now
what about the gel caps?
I mean, people would
say, they must melt.
That would be much better, you
know, by way of oral stuff,
right?
>>SHEPHERD: But
again, everything
that goes through the
digestive system-- you're
going to lose 60%,
70% of that product
because it's going to be waste.
OK, it's going to go
right through the-- right
through the body, and
you're going to excrete it.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SHEPHERD: So it's not
actually getting into--
the bioavailability of the
liquids, the sublinguals,
the gel caps, and all of those
things is like anything else
that you put orally
into the body.
It has to go through
the digestive system,
and then it goes
through the liver,
and it goes through
the digestive system,
and then it's excreted
out of the body.
How much do you actually get?
I mean, it really--
the studies show
that you might end up
with 18%, 20% maximum of the
actual ingredient of a pill,
powder, sublingual,
liquid in the body.
>>REGINA: And that's
not age dependent?
>>SHEPHERD: It's not
age dependent at all.
I mean, everybody's body
metabolizes differently.
We know that.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SHEPHERD: That's a fact.
>>SHEPHERD: And everybody's
bioavailability,
depending on their skin
type, is different,
but we have learned that
a patch put on the body,
on the skin goes right to the--
>>REGINA: Bloodstream.
>>SHEPHERD: --bloodstream, which
is where you want this to go.
And then it goes through all
of the organs in the body,
and you're getting 70%, 80%
of the actual ingredients
that you need for
supplementation in the body.
>>REGINA: Oh, well,
that's why I was
excited about doing
the interview with you
after we stumbled onto
you, because it just
makes sense to me, because I
know my digestion is so-so.
You know, I know I have a
lot of half empty bottles,
or half full, or
2/3 full bottles,
because I can't really
feel the difference.
And so I'll just try something
for a while and then just let
it sit there, waiting to
feel kind of the charge
or feel the difference,
like a lot of people
have been going through
that are looking
to improve their health.
And then we take it
in our own hands.
There are no MDs that
are going to tell us
about these supplements.
We have to just--
it's trial by fire.
We just have to play with it.
>>SHEPHERD: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: And so that's
what we're all doing.
So the notion that nicotine has
traditionally been delivered
this way for so many
years, it's-- first of all,
why hasn't this happened
a long time ago?
Because it is logical.
>>SHEPHERD: As far as patch
and vitamin supplements?
>>REGINA: Patch and
nutrients, yeah.
>>SHEPHERD: Well, only
because of the fact
that you have to take
through the new technology
of the nanotechnology before.
Patches have been
around since 1979,
again, with your nicotine
patch, your estrogen patch, even
your Demerol, you know, your
pain patches in hospitals
for the elderly or for the
young with collapsed veins,
no way to get--
administer anything
into the body.
There was patches.
The only problem was that they
weren't able to dose properly
those ingredients.
So we had a lot of issues with
the pain patches for sure,
and it became a big issue.
With the nicotine
patch, everybody
knows nicotine patches do
work to a certain extent,
but why would you want to put
poison back into your body
in order to get you
to stop smoking.
That's something
I'm totally against.
>>REGINA: Well, that's
the only thing most of us
even knew existed
in the patch world.
>>SHEPHERD: Exactly, exactly.
And of course, the
estrogen patch,
those things that work--
there's no doubt about it.
You can see that
through your blood work,
and that's all well and good.
However, once again, you're
not getting nutrients.
You're not getting the
supplementation the body really
needs to work
properly in my eyes.
So patches evolved
from that, and when
I got involved-- over 15 years
now I've been doing this,
and really be innovative.
>>REGINA: How did
you make that leap,
as from a pathologist
to getting--
doing this patch technology?
>>SHEPHERD: It was real simple.
I got involved with the
state of California,
and they asked me to be involved
with them on a proposition that
would help drug and alcohol
patients or offenders, if you
will--
keep them out of jail.
The jails were
overcrowded, and they
wanted first and
second time offenders
to have alternatives to jail
and get them in treatment.
They need treatment.
They need help.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SHEPHERD: And so they
asked me to come up
with some type of detection
product that I could use.
Back then, there was only a five
panel test, a urine test that
would test for just
the methamphetamine,
and the marijuana THC, the
opioids, the diazepines.
And so they said we've got
all these new drugs out there,
and these date rape drugs,
and all these things.
Can you come up with something?
And I did.
I came up with a 10
panel drug test kit--
that we made it portable that
probation officers could use
in their cars and their kits.
And it worked a lot better.
And so I was on to something.
State of California
was behind me.
It worked.
It was a chain of
custody product.
It was great, and so all
of a sudden I'm going,
well, I can do this.
Then I started getting
into pregnancy tests.
I was getting into the
home test products.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SHEPHERD: And it was--
it was just exciting.
Then a friend of mine
came over from China,
and he said, Dennis, I've
got this patch for hangovers.
And I said, oh, sure.
Yeah, right.
Uh-huh.
He says, no, no, no.
You've got to look at this.
This is fantastic.
It's called hangover free.
I looked at it.
I studied it.
We did kind of a group study,
if you will, with kids--
college kids, elderly, women.
>>REGINA: Yeah, go
to a college campus.
>>SHEPHERD: Especially women--
yeah, exactly-- that drink
wine because they normally
get a hangover with a couple
glasses of red.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SHEPHERD: And so we found
that it actually worked and that
the ingredients--
I was so intrigued.
How did you get
these ingredients--
you know, all these
ingredients into one patch.
And so through science,
reverse engineering,
we found out that they were
able to take these ingredients,
reduce the molecular
weight of a lot of them,
put them on a patch, and they
go through the bloodstream.
Great, great, great idea.
Well, then, all of a sudden,
the light bulb goes on.
>>REGINA: And here we are.
>>SHEPHERD: Why can't you do
all your vitamins, nutrients?
And so that's how it started,
and it's really that easy,
going into a lab and start
taking all of these products
with evolving science.
The science is key to this.
The nanotechnology aspect of
what we're able to do today--
encapsulation.
We're able to take the highest
potency of each ingredient,
the vitamin D, the Bs-- all the
Bs-- the Bs 3s, 5s, 6s, 12s,
all those things--
and reduce them into the
molecular weight, the smallest
transferable ingredient now that
we have, and put it on a patch.
And it worked.
It actually worked.
And so again it just opened
up a whole new idea of,
why can't we do
all the vitamins?
>>REGINA: Indeed.
>>SHEPHERD: And that's
what we started doing.
>>REGINA: Now, you started
working with some universities,
and what I want to do is get
to this, the project where
you started working with
bariatrics patients, which
is stomach stapling.
>>SHEPHERD: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK, because this--
I have a cousin who died
because she drank alcohol
after her stomach stapling.
And she had had an
alcohol problem before,
and the body just can't--
does not metabolize anything
the same way.
>>SHEPHERD: No, no.
>>REGINA: And so--
>>SHEPHERD: Absorption
of alcohol, yes.
>>REGINA: Horrid.
>>SHEPHERD: Horrid.
>>REGINA: So we know
the downside of that.
We know that they also
can't absorb nutrients well.
>>SHEPHERD: Right.
>>REGINA: So let's talk about
what you did in that field.
>>SHEPHERD: Well, this
is really exciting.
This is how this really
blew up in my eyes--
was the fact that,
when you get hospital,
and clinics, and physicians
behind you in a certain group--
and this was a fantastic study
that we did with the post--
well, pre and post
bariatric surgery patients.
You have to meet
certain requirements
to even be considered
for bariatric surgery.
>>REGINA: Usually
it's extreme obesity.
>>SHEPHERD: It is
extreme obesity.
And what you need to do
is be at a certain weight,
and that is a fact.
But you have to be able to have
enough nutrients and minerals
in the body to support the
surgery, because post surgery,
you're going to have
a pouch this big,
and you're not going to be
able to take 25 pills a day--
>>REGINA: No.
>>SHEPHERD: --to supplement
and get all the nutrients
and everything, because
you're not going
to get it through food anymore.
You're not going to get
it through drinking shakes
anymore.
All those things go away.
So how do you
supplement the body?
You do it through the patches.
So we worked with bariatric
surgeons and surgery centers
across the country to
the most greatest effect
by having them give me
ideas of what they need,
what these patients
need, and they
would give me formulations.
And I'd go in the
lab and say, OK, we
can do this, this, and
this, but we can't do that.
And so we'd put our
heads together again
and say, well, if
we didn't do that,
we can supplement this by
adding this, this, and this.
And all of a sudden, we
came up with products
that were absolutely unique to
post surgery bariatric patients
to where they're getting
the supplementation where
they need today.
And it's absolutely fantastic.
Labs don't lie.
That's a key.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SHEPHERD: And all of these
patients had a baseline.
They had their
pills, and powders,
and all of that,
and the baseline
was with those
particular products.
And they knew where their levels
were, where their vitamin D
levels were, where
their hemoglobin was,
where their Bs were, the
most essential nutrients
that the body needs.
Get them off of that.
They have their surgery,
post surgery, and put them
on a patch, and get their
labs in 30, 60 days.
They saw where
their levels were.
For instance, their D levels
might have been at 7 or 8,
and now, all of the sudden after
30 or 45 days, their levels
are 28 by just using the patch.
Now we're really
on to something.
This wasn't just with one
patient, or 10 patients,
or 100 patients.
Thousands of patients
are testimony,
coming out, saying
this is my lab.
They do not lie.
Now what happens?
The doctors are like, oh
my gosh, this really works.
And now you've got
doctors behind you.
>>REGINA: Because normally
they're not that interested
in nutrient delivery--
>>SHEPHERD: They are not.
>>REGINA: --because they're
not even trained in it.
>>SHEPHERD: No, absolutely not.
>>REGINA: So this is really--
this is getting
kind of interesting
because you have created an
excitement about nutrients
themselves within some of these
universities you've worked for.
>>SHEPHERD: Exactly
right, and a lot of them
use the products today.
They're still using
the products today,
which is absolutely fantastic.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SHEPHERD: And so
supplementation we've
learned now is just exploded in
that regard technology again.
Let's go back to technology.
The really exciting thing is
nanotechnology, encapsulation,
what we do--
the bioavailability
is so much better now
with how we are
using accelerators
unique to each
particular product.
And again, proprietary
information I
will not talk about.
However, the products
work only because of what
the labs results are today.
>>REGINA: Is it
time release then?
You're not--
>>SHEPHERD: It his time release.
Again, let's go back
to the technology.
The great thing, again,
about the technology
and what we're talking about,
nanotechnology, and the ability
to use a polymeric, non-woven
product with an adhesive that
is proven hypoallergenic
and non-harmful to the skin.
It allows us to
have a well system.
And as the body
takes that patch,
and as the patch is
worn throughout the day,
it just keeps breaking down,
breaking down, and releasing it
into the body.
And so it is.
It's time release.
So you will get first
couple of hours release,
up until the end,
up to eight hours.
And that's what we found.
>>REGINA: So where do
most people put these?
Where do they go?
>>SHEPHERD: Again,
and a great question,
only because of the fact
that a lot of people think,
oh my gosh, you've got to put
it right at the pain center
at the nape of the
neck, or the back--
the backward-- that's
where my pain is focused.
No, no, no, no.
You want to put it where--
the most absorb area
that we've found.
>>REGINA: What's the
most absorbent area?
>>SHEPHERD: People
like-- well, we've
liked the back of the shoulder,
the arm, the back of the arm.
Even the tummy is a good
place for maximum absorption
for a patch.
>>REGINA: Unless you're hirsute.
>>SHEPHERD: Yeah [LAUGHS].
>>REGINA: So for guys,
maybe find somewhere else.
>>SHEPHERD: You need to
have-- this is very critical.
You really want to put it on
a hairless, lotion-free area
for maximum efficiency
of the product for sure.
>>REGINA: Well,
that makes sense.
If you just slathered
lotion all over--
>>SHEPHERD: Well,
you're blocking.
>>REGINA: --you're blocking.
>>SHEPHERD: Yes.
Very good.
>>REGINA: OK, so
basically another thing
I was interested in is
this, because a lot of times
you take nutrients that
actually are having conflicts
and contraindications with other
nutrients, or even some drugs,
and so forth.
If you're taking
it this way, and it
bypasses the
digestive system, do
you still have that kind of--
those contraindications
or cross reactivity?
>>SHEPHERD: Great question.
Great question.
And no, you don't.
And that's the exciting
thing, again, about a patch--
is that by passing the digestive
system and all of that--
for instance,
you're not supposed
to take vitamin D3
with an iron patch.
It interferes.
Well, with our product
you can use both.
Put both patches--
>>REGINA: Why, though?
If it--
>>SHEPHERD: Because you're going
directly into the bloodstream,
and it's not interfering
with the digestive process,
and the liver, and all of that.
>>REGINA: So the
digestive process
is where these things end up
interfering with each other?
>>SHEPHERD: Yes,
that's exactly right.
>>REGINA: Not the blood?
>>SHEPHERD: And
that's exactly right.
That's exactly right.
And so, again, why do
people have to take vitamins
with food in the morning?
You know, here's a big
problem that I've always
had with supplementation in
pills, powders, sublinguals.
>>REGINA: Well, that's, I think,
why I had a problem with B12,
because I'd always get
sick to my stomach.
>>SHEPHERD: Well, that, and
your omegas, and your fatty--
>>REGINA: Yeah, all of it.
>>SHEPHERD: --all
of the fish oils,
and you're burping it back
up, and it's just terrible.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SHEPHERD: All of that goes
away with putting it on--
using it as a patch, going
into the bloodstream.
That's the key, and there
is no cross reactivity.
We found that.
We know that's a fact, and
that's what's great about this.
And you can, again, put
different ingredients
that would cause
that cross reactivity
in a pill on the
same patch, which
is really exciting for
the turmeric, for the D3.
I mean, those things are
just absolutely critical.
And omega krill oil, which is
the best part of the omega-3
that you want.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SHEPHERD: You can put
that on one patch, where
you weren't able to do that
by taking pills of those three
products.
>>REGINA: Well, and I think
most of us who take vitamins
and minerals have always
heard that, if you
take vitamin C, for
example, most of it
just spills out in your urine.
And we know what
happens to your urine
when you take your B complex.
>>SHEPHERD: We do.
>>REGINA: So what is that
making it all yellow,
and dark gold, and everything?
>>SHEPHERD: Well,
again, it's just--
>>REGINA: It's just spilling.
>>SHEPHERD: It's
the-- it's the pill.
It's the capsule.
That's what happens.
>>REGINA: So you're just--
>>SHEPHERD: And you're not--
it's not being absorbed.
It's waste.
It's all waste, and it's being
filtered out through your body,
and that's a
simple, simple fact.
Again, you might
get 20% of a pill,
and if it's 300
milligrams, you might only
get 20 milligrams of that 300.
People need to understand that.
95% of pills are
filler and binder.
A patch is not.
There's no fillers and binders.
Zero.
>>REGINA: Right-o.
So one of the things I
wanted to talk to you about
are a couple of the
universities you've been working
with on very specific projects.
And we were talking--
we were talking off camera--
all of us were talking
about this-- one
that you were so excited
about because it has to do
with kids, and autism, ADHD.
So let's get into that
study, and that project,
and what happened there.
>>SHEPHERD: And it
wasn't with a university.
It was with pediatrics.
>>REGINA: Pediatrics.
>>SHEPHERD:
Pediatric physicians.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SHEPHERD: And they
were very, very essential
into what we were trying to do.
And they work specifically
with autistic children--
ADHD, ADAD children
that couldn't focus.
And they had the--
they were wild and
crazy, if you will.
And nothing to them.
However, is there anything
out there that could help?
So these physicians had come to
me and said, here's our idea.
We've got this,
this, this, and this
that we have found works
through supplementation,
but it doesn't
work to the degree
that we would like to see real
benefits and help these kids.
Can you put it on a patch?
And I said, just all I
need is the formulation,
the ingredients,
and let me take it,
and let's see what we can do.
And we did.
And we started playing
with it, and my own friends
that have private schools work
and have classes with autistic,
and ADD, and ADHD children--
are using the product
to great effect.
And parents have
literally called
me crying that their kid is
focused, that their kid is not
antsy, running around,
being crazy in a classroom
to where they actually
are getting things done.
And they're not ruining
the day's activity
with other children, and
it's so exciting to see that.
>>REGINA: It's just so
sad to think, though,
that so many kids--
it's just a matter of
nutrient deprivation--
>>SHEPHERD: Exactly.
>>REGINA: --that we're labeling
as these other conditions.
You know, that they're kind of
stuck with these labels, too,
when, in fact--
>>SHEPHERD: I know.
>>REGINA: --it sounds like
with a certain percentage--
I mean, I'm sure there
are levels of autism
that nutrients alone are simply
not going to take care of.
>>SHEPHERD: Of course.
>>REGINA: But with ADHD,
and ADD, and a certain level
of autism, it makes sense.
What's in them?
What nutrients are
creating that effect?
>>SHEPHERD: Well, you're just--
you're dealing with, again,
proprietary blend that these
physicians have put in there,
and I just can't talk--
>>REGINA: I assume there
are some B vitamins.
>>SHEPHERD: But there are.
Again, and all of the nutrients,
and everything's available.
You can look and see on
the back of the panel
as to what's in there,
so what's good for you.
But here's the thing.
Parents were spending hundreds
and hundreds of dollars
for the pills and
the combination
of all these ingredients
that these doctors said
would work for them,
these physicians--
pediatric physicians only.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SHEPHERD: And when
you can take one patch,
and put it on, and see
results, and reducing the cost
by 70% or 80%, I mean,
are we paying it forward
or what in helping families
keep the tight pocketbook
for their kids?
But seeing the results
and helping these kids--
>>REGINA: Yeah, that's exciting.
>>SHEPHERD: It's
really exciting.
And again, we must
remember this.
This is so key.
Not everything is
working for everybody.
>>REGINA: Of course.
>>SHEPHERD: Prescription drugs,
prescription pain medication
doesn't work for everybody.
>>REGINA: That's
in patches, too.
>>SHEPHERD: Just like patches.
Just like supplementation.
It just depends on
everybody's body.
So we're not a cure
all for everything,
but at least we're an
alternative to try.
>>REGINA: Alternative
delivery system.
>>SHEPHERD: I think that-- we
are an alternative delivery
system, and people need
to understand that,
that we're out there.
And with the combination
of ingredients
that we're able to do, instead
of taking five, or six,
or seven pills a day, put one
patch on, and see what happens.
I mean, that's the key to
this whole patch technology.
>>REGINA: Well, I
mean, I'm doing it
because I like to
play with everything.
That's why I have so many
half or 3/4 full bottles
of vitamins.
>>SHEPHERD: You and millions
and millions of other people.
>>REGINA: I like to play
with everything, so.
>>SHEPHERD: Well,
you know, people--
one more thing I want to
talk about is the fact that
there's 100 million--
this is a fact--
100 million Americans today
that have a gut issue,
whether it's celiac disease,
or Crohn's disease--
>>REGINA: No kidding.
>>SHEPHERD: --or IBS.
>>REGINA: Literally
all of my girlfriends
and I all have
issues with our guts.
>>SHEPHERD: And they
can't take pills,
and they can't take
powders and liquids.
>>REGINA: Well, I was going
to say, god, can you fix that?
>>SHEPHERD: Yes, and, again,
we're an alternative to that.
>>REGINA: OK, so you were
working with UCLA and Stanford,
as well.
>>SHEPHERD: That
was many years ago.
>>REGINA: Right, and what
were those projects about?
And I remember you
telling me at one point
you had one having to do with
kids and damaged mitochondria.
We'll get into that,
too, but what were
you working with with them?
>>SHEPHERD: That's
what I was working on.
They'd come to me talking
about mitochondrial disease,
and I went to a seminar at UCLA.
And I met with
physicians that were
just specific to
mitochondrial disease.
And they were looking
for ways to help
through supplementation.
They found that mass
quantities of CoQ10
absolutely helped
children and anybody
with mitochondrial disease.
And so they came to me
and said, listen, Dennis,
here's what we'd like to see.
Can you take mass
quantities of CoQ10--
we know it's the most expensive
ingredient out there today.
>>REGINA: Yeah, it's
really expensive.
>>SHEPHERD: But
parents are out there
spending $1,200,
$1,800 a month to just
have enough of those
supplement pills
to help their children
get out of bed.
>>REGINA: Jeez, how much--
I mean, you'd have to
take handfuls of it.
>>SHEPHERD: You'd have to take--
they're taking up
to 20 pills a day.
>>REGINA: Did they have IVs or
anything where they could do--
>>SHEPHERD: You
can do three ways
to get things into the body
efficiently is an infusion, IV,
injection, or topical patch.
>>REGINA: Right, besides oral.
Yeah.
>>SHEPHERD: Yes.
Well, no, no.
I'm not-- no, oral--
>>REGINA: No, getting it
under the skin into the body.
>>SHEPHERD: Yes.
So we said, let's try.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SHEPHERD: So we took a study
with UCLA physicians again,
and came up--
for this group, this
particular group of
mitochondrial
patients and families,
and came up with a high
dose patch for CoQ10.
And all of a sudden, it worked.
And we were putting
2,500 milligrams--
getting the kids 2,500
milligrams of CoQ10.
And kids were
getting out of bed.
They were functioning.
But it took going
to these seminars.
It took these physicians to come
to us and say, can you do this?
Can you do that?
>>REGINA: To be
open minded enough.
>>SHEPHERD: To be
>>REGINA: I'm just pleased
to hear there are some open
minded--
>>SHEPHERD: And it's exciting.
>>REGINA: --physicians in this
area of nutrients in general.
That's exciting to
me, because it's
been such an uphill
battle for people
who have been health conscious.
But let me go back to
mitochondria, because you
were dealing with kids.
>>SHEPHERD: Right.
>>REGINA: But there
are-- we're learning now
that there are more and
more elements of life that
are damaging mitochondria.
>>SHEPHERD: Right.
>>REGINA: And so adults
are vulnerable, as well.
We're all vulnerable now.
What are some of the
factors that are damaging
our mitochondria right now?
And to what effect?
I mean, how does
this affect a person?
>>SHEPHERD: Well,
again, that's not
my bailiwick of getting
into that science of it.
>>REGINA: No, I know it's not.
I'm not asking you to
be a doctor on this.
Just from what you even
learned at that time.
>>SHEPHERD: Well, just the
fact that the red cell--
the red blood cells just
weren't plentiful enough.
They didn't have the
energy to help the lungs,
to help the liver
function, to help
all of the functioning
of the body itself.
And we found that, through
real clinical studies of CoQ10,
as it was, worked.
And that was the only
thing that worked.
>>REGINA: Because
I first started
using CoQ10 reading some books
and also a couple of studies
out of Japan.
Back in the 19--
late '80s or early
'90s, I think,
and also I had read at that time
the US military was originally
experimenting with it on
soldiers who were overseas
and had a lot of gum
disease, a lot of issues with
their mouths, obviously, and
that they were having this
incredible effect on healing
gum tissue in humans--
in young men.
Not just older people,
but in young men.
And then, of course,
the Japanese use of it--
they've been using
it for decades
for repairing heart damage.
>>SHEPHERD: Right, right.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
mitochondrial damage--
>>SHEPHERD: Exactly.
>>REGINA: --and the
pulmonary system.
>>SHEPHERD: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Yeah, cardiac
pulmonary system.
So I've been a big fan of
CoQ10 for many, many years.
But whether or not it's working
on my body, how do you know?
I mean, how do you know?
It's mitochondria.
Other than just being
knocked out and exhausted
if you're so damaged, then how
would the average person even
know if they needed Q10.
>>SHEPHERD: Well, again,
are you lethargic?
Are you down?
>>REGINA: Bleeding gums, maybe.
>>SHEPHERD: Well,
you know, all--
there's so many things
that are red flags.
And again, supplementation
by using mass quantities
that they found with CoQ10--
you've seen things
be eliminated.
So just by process
of elimination,
by trying an alternative, we are
taking those ingredients that
are beneficial to certain
aspects of ailment
and putting them on one patch.
And that's what we're
going back to again now.
We're revisiting some of the
things that we did 15 years ago
and finding that we need
to readdress those things.
What goes around comes around.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SHEPHERD: And society
today and the problems
that we're having
today with health,
we need to get back
in and help people.
That's what we're all about.
>>REGINA: Like epidemic vitamin
D3 deficiency, for example.
>>SHEPHERD: Of course.
>>REGINA: Of one-- just one.
>>SHEPHERD: Of
course, of course.
>>REGINA: But also all the heart
disease because of the stress.
>>SHEPHERD: Of course.
>>REGINA: Because of
literally the stress
that has been put on
society is creating en masse
cardiac issues in people.
>>SHEPHERD: I was just at Hoag
Hospital in Newport Beach,
where I have a
lot of colleagues.
And I was talking to a real good
friend of mine, a cardiologist.
He was telling me that, with
this epidemic right now,
people aren't coming
in to see him.
And they're having
myocardial infraction--
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah.
>>SHEPHERD: You know,
infarction at home.
And he says it just breaks
his heart what's going on.
Now you've got heart disease.
They come in, and
they do a repair.
They do a bypass or whatever.
And what do you do?
I mean, you could have
prevented that if people
would talk about these
heart problems and issues.
Let's build it up and make
sure that you have something
to help with heart disease.
>>REGINA: And that's a
whole lifestyle thing, too.
>>SHEPHERD: It is.
Of course it is.
>>REGINA: Because stress, and
anxiety, and worry is just
going to take you
down the wrong place.
>>SHEPHERD: Smoking
and drinking.
>>REGINA: Smoking and drinking--
>>SHEPHERD: [INAUDIBLE]
>>REGINA: --to
relieve the stress,
and now you're even
further away from your--
>>SHEPHERD: Right, right.
>>REGINA: Yeah, your
good health profile.
>>SHEPHERD: But let's talk
just a moment about CBD,
because CBD works.
The trials have
shown CBD works--
works for anxiety.
It works as an
anti-inflammatory.
It helps with so many things.
Or let me rephrase that.
It may help with this.
It may help with that.
It may, may, may.
That's the key.
>>REGINA: We are
not giving advice.
>>SHEPHERD: We're
>>REGINA: We're making
recommendations.
>>SHEPHERD: That's
exactly right.
But what we have found is that
our particular patches, again,
with CBD in them,
combination with the omegas,
or with pain patches, or with
any other patch we can put CBD
in to help relieve that
anxiety that everybody's
expressing today.
Everybody's freaked out.
You know that.
They're out there.
They're locked in their houses,
or they're afraid to go out,
and it's just created this
society today where the anxiety
levels are off the chart.
Combination of a CBD
patch with calming effect
of supplementation works, and
people are finding that now.
And we are seeing
more, and more,
and more people get involved.
No THC in our product at all.
Not-- no THC.
100% CBD broad spectrum.
That's it.
So there's no issues.
There's no psychotropic product
out there on a patch from us.
And the good news is that
the effects are fantastic.
That calming effect that
you're getting with anxiety
is amazing.
PTSD and some of these
other issues with our heroes
out there that are
coming back, that
have all these issues-- you
talk about anxiety and PTSD.
We're finding--
>>REGINA: That's the
medical profession.
They're the frontline
heroes these days.
>>SHEPHERD: Exactly
with that, too.
And guess what?
They have PTSD coming
back from spending 10, 12,
14 days in the ER.
That's a real deal.
I know that from a
lot of my colleagues.
A lot of friends
out there have that,
and they're using the
patch to great effect.
They're having that calmness
come back to them again
so they can be
better at treatment.
It's amazing.
>>REGINA: Yeah, because so many
people-- you know, it's odd.
When you get out of a
mode and a way of being,
so many people are holed
up now by themselves,
afraid to be around
other people.
And that, in itself, is
becoming an accepted way of life
and almost a chronic mindset--
>>SHEPHERD: It is terrible.
>>REGINA: --where people are
now afraid of other people.
>>SHEPHERD: I know.
Well, the psychological
effect of what's happened
is absolutely amazing.
>>REGINA: Oh my gosh.
>>SHEPHERD: It's terrible.
>>REGINA: So in that case,
yeah, I mean, we're looking at--
yeah, we have some of
the classic nutrients
to help get your nervous
system and your brain
booted up again and
all that, but that's
a really tough one,
because it involves
so many aspects of our
multidimensional being,
so to speak.
>>SHEPHERD: Of
course, of course.
But to have a non-psychotropic
product like CBD, and again--
>>REGINA: And a lot of
people are using it for--
to good effect all
over the world.
>>SHEPHERD: Well,
of course, they are,
and it's accepted today.
And people have finally
realized that it's OK.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SHEPHERD: Even physicians
now are saying, oh my gosh,
CBD works.
It absolutely works for
anxiety, and it works
for anti-inflammatory issues.
And so we're seeing a huge--
>>REGINA: For sleep apparently
for a lot of people.
>>SHEPHERD: Sleep-- oh my
goodness gracious, you know,
again.
If you're not-- if you're not
sleeping, what's the problem?
You know, you've got
some real issues.
Functioning during the day, if
you're in a high level stress
situation job, how
do you-- how do
you do that if you're not
getting your six, seven, eight
hours a day?
That's what--
>>REGINA: Yeah,
because, I mean, I
was ignorant as to the
existence of the technology,
except for nicotine.
I didn't even-- I mean, I
probably should have known
about hormone
patches, but I didn't.
I'd never been exposed to them.
So if I didn't know about it,
and I'm out there researching
a lot, then most people probably
haven't been exposed to it.
And that is the joy
of my job-- is always
being out kind of
on the forefront,
discovering things, and
sharing it with people.
>>SHEPHERD: I can't thank
you enough, because--
>>REGINA: I love it.
>>SHEPHERD: --people's
eyes and ears are on this.
>>REGINA: Once I finally met
you and talked to you about all
this, it was so exciting--
is that you're an Energizer
bunny, obviously.
And you love what you do,
and I know you do a lot of--
you do some-- a lot
of pro bono just,
you know, good work
for society and trying
to help people, disadvantaged
groups, and so forth.
But what I like is
your open mindedness
and that you're
willing to always--
if someone-- one of
these people from--
whether it's a group of
pediatricians, or university,
or health ministry calls
and say we've got a problem,
I love the fact that you're
willing to play with this,
and keep experimenting,
and putting--
>>SHEPHERD: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: --putting
yourself on the line
to find something better.
I love that mindset.
I just have to say that.
>>SHEPHERD: Well, I
truly appreciate that,
because that is my passion.
I have a lot of passion.
As you can see, it comes
out in our conversation.
And I know I can be
a little overbearing.
>>REGINA: I love it.
No, I love it.
>>SHEPHERD: But it's needed.
We need to get the story out.
>>REGINA: I'm excited.
>>SHEPHERD: We need-- you
know, the naturopaths,
the homeopathic,
and the holistic
understand Western
medicine isn't
the win-win for everybody.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SHEPHERD: And there are
alternatives out there.
And this is a strong message
to send to them right now--
that it's here, and
we're here to help,
and we'll work with those--
and we'll work with
those that have ideas
and think outside the box.
Come to me.
I can make a patch.
If you give me the ingredient,
I'll take it into the lab.
That's what we do.
>>REGINA: I love it.
Any final thoughts on this?
Because it sounds
to me like this
is a breakthrough
technology that
is starting to move us into
the future of nutrient delivery
and absorption.
And it's not to say
there's anything
wrong with my cupboard
full of supplements.
Everyone's doing
their part in terms
of what we know at any
given moment in history.
And it's always evolving.
You're going to evolve
and learn more, too.
But I'm just happy that
this evolutionary step
seems to be here.
>>SHEPHERD: It's
here to stay, Regina.
Nanotechnology's here.
It's evolving.
And the things that
we can do are only
getting bigger and better.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SHEPHERD: And they're working.
And people see it, and
people are coming to us
and saying, thank you.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
So if someone watching
this is affiliated
with a group with special
needs of some kind,
they can contact you and see
if you can work with them
on a formulation, even?
>>SHEPHERD: Absolutely.
And just so you know, I have--
my daughter is special needs.
I have a special needs
daughter that I work with,
and I work with all
of those groups.
That is one of my
passions, and I've
developed certain particular
products for them, especially
in the CBD line, to
help reduce seizures.
>>REGINA: Yeah, seizures.
>>SHEPHERD: And it works.
And my daughter's a
testament to that.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>SHEPHERD: And again,
she has collapsed veins.
We can't get draws into her.
I've had to put a port in her
chest so I can get blood draws,
and check, and do
all those things.
But here's the thing, she's
on her vitamin D patch,
and her D levels
are off the charts.
The Bs for energy, the focus.
>>REGINA: She's doing better.
>>SHEPHERD: She uses
all of these things,
but she gets CBD every night,
and her seizure activity
is almost non-existent.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I've
read the studies on that.
>>SHEPHERD: That is real.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SHEPHERD: So but
I do work with that,
and again, like
the mitochondrial,
the focus for the autistic.
Come to me.
If you have issues, you
have a problem, come to me,
and we'll try and
see if we can help.
>>REGINA: I like that you're not
too big for your britches where
no one can--
>>SHEPHERD: Not--
nobody should be.
>>REGINA: No one can
get to you, yeah.
>>SHEPHERD: There's no ego here.
Just remember,
there's no ego here.
All right?
>>REGINA: Dennis,
thanks so much.
I'm really excited.
>>SHEPHERD: My pleasure.
Thank you.
>>REGINA: This was great.
>>SHEPHERD: Great, Regina.
>>REGINA: To learn more
about these nutrient patches,
you can go to patch20.com.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."